in 2024 inflation was 2.9% but if you
ask anybody in the streets what was the
real inflation they will tell you that
it was much higher than that 3% isn't
that substantial and people wouldn't
actually complain about that but why
does it feels like inflation is much
higher than 3% the reality is that the
government is hiding real inflation
numbers it sounds like a conspiracy
theory but in this video I'm going to
give you the facts i'm going to give you
the numbers and you will decide for
yourself because at the end of the day
it matters how they count the inflation
numbers it's not about the real prices
but about how they count the numbers and
those are the numbers that they're
reporting to you so if you actually
understand how they count inflation
numbers you will find out the true
inflation numbers and trust me it's much
higher than that and by the end of this
video you will know that so give this
video a thumbs up and let's get right
into it back in the days high inflation
was something normal then suddenly
changes in 1980s and 90s and inflation
goes substantially down and we're having
a very long period of inflation of
around 2% that the Fed constantly tries
to achieve did we invent something back
in 90s 80s and 90s that we suddenly have
such a low inflation numbers what
exactly has happened and that's because
we started manipulating the numbers in
order to artificially bring those
inflation numbers down why do we want to
do that that's because the government
does not wants high inflation the
government wants to keep printing money
while inflation to be low one of the
major indicators of inflation is the
consumer price index or CPI it's known
in short and this is one of the indexes
that the Fed uses in order to drive the
final inflation numbers and it consists
of eight major categories it's purposely
designed in such a way that it catches
every aspect of every American's life so
we have housing we have food and
beverages we have Medicare
transportation education and so on and
so forth so if prices in all those eight
major categories rise that's what we
call inflation but the problem with this
CPI report is that it does not includes
asset prices wait a second how does
asset prices or what does asset prices
have to do with inflation numbers asset
prices includes within themselves house
prices so if you see suddenly house
prices grow by 20 30 50% they will not
be reflected in the CPI reports
therefore they will not be reflected in
the final inflation reports yes that is
why in 2020 2021 2022 you saw house
prices have increase so much but
inflation wasn't literally that high
what is inflation at the end of the day
inflation is the general increase in
prices and it often happens when the
government spends so much money or when
the government prints so much money and
throws it into the economy and when
there are too many dollars within the
economy chasing too few goods suddenly
prices increase of course there are
other reason why prices increase for
example extra taxes extra tariffs but
one of the major factors that drives
inflation is because the government
prints so much money so when the
government threw so much money into the
economy and house prices risen by 30%
like it happened in 2020 it's supposed
to be part of inflation but the
government says "Nope no no no it is not
going to be part of inflation even
though that it directly reflects your
life and it directly makes it much more
difficult for you to buy a house
secondly when there is so much money
being thrown into the economy the stock
market suddenly rise so you have
companies who did not grow you have
companies who did not build better
greater products you have companies who
did not conquer new markets and yet
their stock prices rise dramatically and
if it was the only flow then I wouldn't
actually mind but this is just the
beginning because if you dig down deep
into the way they calculate the
inflation numbers you will be shocked if
you look at how Americans spend their
money you will quickly realize that
housing makes up a big portion of their
spending and that's absolutely normal
that's not just the case in the US but
all across the globe so a third of their
spending goes into the housing the CPI
report assumes that you are spending
only a third of your income on housing
but house prices have increased by 30
40% and now I have to spend half of my
income on the housing and that means
that if house prices increase it has a
direct impact on my spending which means
that the real inflation for me didn't
actually grow by 3% but have actually
grown by 10% because house prices on
general have increased by 20 or 30% so
if house prices keep increasing and it
keeps making a larger than a larger
portion of your spending that doesn't
matter to the CPI report but here's the
real problem of how they calculate house
prices over the last 50 60 years house
prices have increased dramatically and
if you look at the recent data the
increase was substantially higher
especially in 2020 because of all of
that quantitative easing house prices
skyrocketed to the top and back in the
days before 1983 they would usually
actually take house prices or mortgages
or rent prices and they will make them
part of the CPI reports because that's
how it makes sense if rent prices have
increased by 10% then housing have
increased by 10% if mortgages have
increased then that should be part of
the CPI because how do you think people
buy houses the vast majority of houses
that are being bought in the United
States are being bought through
financing them through a bank which
means that people go to the bank they
take a mortgage and they buy a house and
if there is any real difference in the
mortgage rates that will have a
substantial direct impact on the house
prices secondly if you want to actually
include real inflation numbers you
literally have to take real house prices
and make them part of the CPI and it
makes sense and that was the case before
1983 but then they realized that this is
a really bad strategy because if we are
going to include house prices if you are
going to include mortgage prices and
rent prices suddenly you will find out
that inflation have actually risen much
higher than we actually wanted suddenly
inflation like 20% 30% 40% we don't want
that kind of inflation so let's do a
little trick let's just change the way
we actually calculate the prices for the
houses so that we bring down that price
and they came out with a new
measurements they call it owner's
equivalent of rent they literally just
call people homeowners in particularly
and they asked them how much you would
have actually paid for your house if you
would actually rent it and people say
some kind of a number and they will call
thousands of people and they will come
up with an average number and they will
say well last year people said that they
will pay for their house $1,000 this
year they say that they will pay for it
$1,30 which means that inflation for
housing was just 3% that doesn't make
sense why are you coming up with some
kind of new measurements that does not
reflect the reality so why don't you
simply take house prices why don't you
simply take mortgage prices why don't
you simply take rent prices we don't do
that we're simply going to come up with
a new measurement and because of this
new measurement that they came up with
suddenly the CPI report is much lower
than the house prices the mortgage
prices or rent prices which is literally
a brilliant way to bring down inflation
number so when you see at the house
prices and they're rising so much do not
assume for a moment that they will ever
make it part of the CPI and if they
don't make it part of the CPI they will
not be part of the inflation number and
that's why when they tell you that
inflation is 2.9% that doesn't mean that
the real inflation is 2.9% the second
major category is of course
transportation and the United States is
a place where without a car you cannot
possibly survive so owning a car is one
of the fundamental ways for you to
actually move around from one place to
another owning a car without owning a
car there is no way you can actually
move around 80% of all the cars in the
United States are being financed and
that means that an increase in the
interest rates means a direct increase
in the final price of the car so if the
price of the car is like $50,000 and
there is an interest rate of 4% for it
there is a specific price for it if we
increase the auto interest rates to 7%
for example then the final price of the
car can go to $60,000
$70,000 sometimes even $80,000 and your
monthly payments can increase by 10 20%
just because there was a substantial
increase in interest rates do you think
that will be reflected in the final CPI
report well absolutely not for the CPI
report or the Fed or the government as
long as the final price or as long as
the price of the car that you see in the
showroom didn't increase we did not have
inflation at all even though that nobody
actually buys that car at all even
though that in order to buy that car you
have to go to the bank and you have to
borrow the money to be able to buy that
car and that is the vast majority of the
cost and that you can already see that
we have a problem with the way they
actually calculate the housing we have a
problem with the way they actually
calculate the transportation and that's
already at least 50% of your expenses
and that is why if you look at the CPI
report or the inflation number it's 3%
but if you look at the actual prices
suddenly you were paying 20 30 50% much
more than you used to for example a year
before that or two years prior to that
the third change they made it in 1999
when they started doing the math and
moved from the arithmetic measurement
into the geometric measurement and that
might sound a little bit complicated in
the beginning but it's very simple and
straightforward and this is a direct
manipulation in order to bring down
inflation number suppose you used to buy
a lot of beef and beef in general is
much more expensive than chicken for
example but now beef prices have
increased by 20% for example so what are
you going to do you can go to your
employer and tell him listen I need a
raise you have to increase my income
because beef prices have increase and I
no longer can afford beef are you going
to do that well absolutely not if you do
that you're going to get fired what most
people usually do is that they will
switch from beef to something cheaper to
a cheaper alternative and that means for
example is chicken and chicken prices
have increased by just 3% because people
stopped buying beef or the vast majority
of people stopped buying beef they will
exclude beef out of the CPI report and
they will include chicken so if you
actually ask people why do we have beef
anymore a CPI report will simply say
well people stopped buying beef but they
stopped buying beef because it became
much more expensive they shifted to our
inferior products but the CPI report
will say well we don't care about that
that's not the reason that's not what we
do that's not our job our job is simply
measure the prices of the goods and
services that people usually buy but
because they stopped buying beef we are
no longer going to exclude that so over
time the quality of your life
deteriorates over time you start
switching from superior products to
inferior products so maybe yes you might
be spending the exact same amount of
money but that same amount of money now
provides you with a lower quality of
life and that's because prices have
increased substantially but in the eyes
of the Fed in the eyes of the government
in the eyes of the CPI report and the
inflation report that didn't happen you
simply shifted to a different
alternative and now we're going to
include the cheaper alternative and this
is just one example with beef and
chicken just look at your entire life
maybe you used to go to restaurants
maybe you used to order a certain type
of a meal and now it's much more
expensive and you moved to something
cheaper and food and groceries represent
a substantial amount of your spending
another interesting adjustment they made
to the CPI report is the hedonic
adjustments back in 1990s and this is
probably one of the most interesting
ways they're literally manipulating the
inflation numbers seven eight years ago
if you would go and buy an iPhone the
basic memory was probably around 16 GB
today the basic memory is around 128 GB
or something along those lines and
that's because every single year Apple
has to improve the quality of their
products now they're still keeping the
price at around $1,000 but in the eyes
of the government now you're getting
more for the exact same amount of money
which means that in reality the price of
iPhone have dropped wait a second no no
no the price of iPhone did not decrease
the price of iPhone stayed the same they
simply improve the quality slightly
every single year in order to match with
the current technology but that's not
what is happening in the eyes of the Fed
in the eyes of the Fed now you're still
paying $1,000 but you're getting much
more than $1,000 compared to the last
year so the real price of iPhone this
year is not $1,000 but it's $800 and now
take that logic and you can apply it
literally to everything take a car if
you go and buy a car let's say a Ford it
costs $30,000 now the exact same Ford
used to cost let's say 20 or $30,000 20
years ago but the Ford today is much
more superior than the Ford that was 20
years ago because of how technology
improved over time because the world has
changed over time because we have
different needs today because we have
much more sophisticated technology today
but in the eyes of the government over
the last 20 years the price of this Ford
car has been going down and down so in
the CPI report when they're actually
taking car prices they will say car
prices negative 10% and because you're
actually getting the final CPI report or
the final inflation number and the final
number is an average of all numbers you
will see some of these major categories
go slightly higher and car prices go
down or technology prices go down or
your MacBook prices go down the final
average number is going to be 2.9% 3%
maybe best case scenario like 3.5% but
if you actually take the real numbers
and apply it to your life suddenly those
increases didn't actually happen and
prices have actually increased by 10 20
or 30% and that's why in reality it
feels like prices have increased because
prices have actually increased and they
will never reflect the inflation numbers
that they're reporting to you so if you
zoom out and take a look at the way they
actually do the math for the CPI report
suddenly you will find a lot of
manipulations and these manipulations
did not actually happen overnight over
the last decades over the last 60 70
years they kept adjusting the numbers in
such a way in order to bring that
inflation down and down and that's why
historically back in the days inflation
was much higher because the way they
used to calculate it was completely
different back in the days since they
introduced those manipulation inflation
numbers have dropped drastically and
right now they're also using a
completely different metrics and that
different metrics is the core CPI you
probably have heard about it and this
core CPI excludes energy and excludes
food prices every time that you look at
that inflation number do not actually be
surprised that's absolutely normal the
real inflation is often much higher than
the inflation that they're reporting to
you and that's why rich people in this
case always keep their savings and keep
their money in assets because every time
there is inflation asset prices will
rise dramatically asset prices are the
first prices that are going to rise the
more money there is in the economy the
higher that asset prices are going to
rise and if you don't want to be subject
to this manipulations and you want your
wealth to keep growing then start
investing but make sure that before you
actually get into the world of investing
you know absolutely what you are doing
and if you need help with that make sure
to check the description of this video
that's it for today thanks for watching
and I will see you in the next


19:27
Now playing
